docs/source/schema-transforms.md, before:

---
title: Schema transforms
description: Automatically transforming schemas
---

Schema transforms are a tool for making modified copies of `GraphQLSchema` objects, without changing the original schema implementation. This is especially useful when the original schema _cannot_ be changed, i.e. when using [remote schemas](/remote-schemas/).

Schema transforms can be useful when building GraphQL gateways that combine multiple schemas and/or using [schema stitching](/schema-stitching/) to combine schemas together without conflicts between types or fields.

Schema transforms work by wrapping the original schema in a new outer schema that simply delegates all operations to the original inner schema. Each schema transform includes a function that changes the outer wrapping schema. It may also include an operation transform, i.e. functions that either modify the operation prior to delegation or modify the result prior to its return.

```ts
interface Transform = {
  transformSchema?: (schema: GraphQLSchema) => GraphQLSchema;
  transformRequest?: (request: Request) => Request;
  transformResult?: (result: Result) => Result;
};
```

For example, let's consider changing the name of the type in a simple schema. Imagine we've written a function that takes a `GraphQLSchema` and replaces all instances of type `Test` with `NewTest`.

```graphql
# old schema
type Test {
  id: ID!
  name: String
}

type Query {
  returnTest: Test
}

# new schema

type NewTest {
  id: ID!
  name: String
}

type Query {
  returnTest: NewTest
}
```

On delegation to the inner, original schema, we want the `NewTest` type to be automatically mapped to the old `Test` type.

At first glance, it might seem as though most queries work the same way as before:

```graphql
query {
  returnTest {
    id
    name
  }
}
```

Since the fields of the type have not changed, delegating to the old schema is relatively easy here.

However, the new name begins to matter more when fragments and variables are used:

```graphql
query {
  returnTest {
    id
    ... on NewTest {
      name
    }
  }
}
```

Since the `NewTest` type did not exist on old schema, this fragment will not match anything in the old schema, so it will be filtered out during delegation.

What we need is a `transformRequest` function that knows how to rename any occurrences of `NewTest` to `Test` before delegating to the old schema.

By the same reasoning, we also need a `transformResult` function, because any results contain a `__typename` field whose value is `Test`, that name needs to be updated to `NewTest` in the final result.

## API

### Transform

```ts
interface Transform = {
  transformSchema?: (schema: GraphQLSchema) => GraphQLSchema;
  transformRequest?: (request: Request) => Request;
  transformResult?: (result: Result) => Result;
};

type Request = {
  document: DocumentNode;
  variables: Record<string, any>;
  extensions?: Record<string, any>;
};

type Result = ExecutionResult & {
  extensions?: Record<string, any>;
};
```

### wrapSchema / transformSchema

Given a `GraphQLSchema` and an array of `Transform` objects, produce a new schema with those transforms applied.

Delegating resolvers are generated to map from new schema root fields to old schema root fields. These automatic resolvers should be sufficient, so you don't have to implement your own.

The delegating resolvers will apply the operation transforms defined by the `Transform` objects. Each provided `transformRequest` functions will be applies in reverse order, until the request matches the original schema. The `tranformResult` functions will be applied in the opposite order until the result matches the outer schema.

For convenience, when using `transformSchema`, after schema transformation, the `transforms` property on a returned `transformedSchema` object will contains the operation transforms that were applied. This could be useful when manually delegating to the original schema from an outer schema.

## Built-in transforms

Built-in transforms are ready-made classes implementing the `Transform` interface. They are intended to cover many of the most common schema transformation use cases, but they also serve as examples of how to implement transforms for your own needs.

### Modifying types

* `FilterTypes(filter: (type: GraphQLNamedType) => boolean)`: Remove all types for which the `filter` function returns `false`.

* `RenameTypes(renamer, options?)`: Rename types by applying `renamer` to each type name. If `renamer` returns `undefined`, the name will be left unchanged. Options controls whether built-in types and scalars are renamed. Root objects are never renamed by this transform.

```ts
RenameTypes(
  (name: string) => string | void,
  options?: {
    renameBuiltins: Boolean;
    renameScalars: Boolean;
  },
)
```

### Modifying root fields

* `TransformRootFields(transformer: RootTransformer)`: Given a transformer, arbitrarily transform root fields. The `transformer` can return a `GraphQLFieldConfig` definition, a object with new `name` and a `field`, `null` to remove the field, or `undefined` to leave the field unchanged.

```ts
TransformRootFields(transformer: RootTransformer)

type RootTransformer = (
  operation: 'Query' | 'Mutation' | 'Subscription',
  fieldName: string,
  field: GraphQLField<any, any>,
) =>
  | GraphQLFieldConfig<any, any>
  | { name: string; field: GraphQLFieldConfig<any, any> }
  | null
  | void;
```

* `FilterRootFields(filter: RootFilter)`: Like `FilterTypes`, removes root fields for which the `filter` function returns `false`.

```ts
FilterRootFields(filter: RootFilter)

type RootFilter = (
  operation: 'Query' | 'Mutation' | 'Subscription',
  fieldName: string,
  field: GraphQLField<any, any>,
) => boolean;
```

* `RenameRootFields(renamer)`: Rename root fields, by applying the `renamer` function to their names.

```ts
RenameRootFields(
  renamer: (
    operation: 'Query' | 'Mutation' | 'Subscription',
    name: string,
    field: GraphQLField<any, any>,
  ) => string,
)
```

### Modifying object fields

* `TransformObjectFields(objectFieldTransformer: ObjectFieldTransformer, fieldNodeTransformer?: FieldNodeTransformer))`: Given an object field transformer, arbitrarily transform fields. The `objectFieldTransformer` can return a `GraphQLFieldConfig` definition, a object with new `name` and a `field`, `null` to remove the field, or `undefined` to leave the field unchanged. The optional `fieldNodeTransformer`, if specified, is called upon any field of that type in the request; result transformation can be specified by wrapping the resolve function within the `objectFieldTransformer`. In this way, a field can be fully arbitrarily modified in place.

```ts
TransformObjectFields(objectFieldTransformer: ObjectFieldTransformer, fieldNodeTransformer: FieldNodeTransformer)

type ObjectFieldTransformer = (
  typeName: string,
  fieldName: string,
  field: GraphQLField<any, any>,
) =>
  | GraphQLFieldConfig<any, any>
  | { name: string; field: GraphQLFieldConfig<any, any> }
  | null
  | void;

type FieldNodeTransformer = (
  typeName: string,
  fieldName: string,
  fieldNode: FieldNode
) => FieldNode;
```

* `FilterObjectFields(filter: ObjectFilter)`: Removes object fields for which the `filter` function returns `false`.

```ts
FilterObjectFields(filter: ObjectFilter)

type ObjectFilter = (
  typeName: string,
  fieldName: string,
  field: GraphQLField<any, any>,
) => boolean;
```

* `RenameObjectFields(renamer)`: Rename object fields, by applying the `renamer` function to their names.

```ts
RenameObjectFields(
  renamer: (
    typeName: string,
    fieldName: string,
    field: GraphQLField<any, any>,
  ) => string,
)
```

### Additional Operation Transforms

It may be sometimes useful to add additional transforms to manually change an operation request or result when using `delegateToSchema`. Common use cases may be move selections around or to wrap them. The following built-in transforms may be useful in those cases.

* `ExtractField({ from: Array<string>, to: Array<string> })` - move selection at `from` path to `to` path.

* `WrapQuery(
    path: Array<string>,
    wrapper: QueryWrapper,
    extractor: (result: any) => any,
  )` - wrap a selection at `path` using function `wrapper`. Apply `extractor` at the same path to get the result. This is used to get a result nested inside other result

```js
transforms: [
  // Wrap document takes a subtree as an AST node
  new WrapQuery(
    // path at which to apply wrapping and extracting
    ['userById'],
    (subtree: SelectionSetNode) => ({
      // we create a wrapping AST Field
      kind: Kind.FIELD,
      name: {
        kind: Kind.NAME,
        // that field is `address`
        value: 'address',
      },
      // Inside the field selection
      selectionSet: subtree,
    }),
    // how to process the data result at path
    result => result && result.address,
  ),
],
```

`WrapQuery` can also be used to expand multiple top level query fields

```js
transforms: [
  // Wrap document takes a subtree as an AST node
  new WrapQuery(
    // path at which to apply wrapping and extracting
    ['userById'],
    (subtree: SelectionSetNode) => {
      const newSelectionSet = {
        kind: Kind.SELECTION_SET,
        selections: subtree.selections.map(selection => {
          // just append fragments, not interesting for this
          // test
          if (selection.kind === Kind.INLINE_FRAGMENT ||
            selection.kind === Kind.FRAGMENT_SPREAD) {
            return selection;
          }
          // prepend `address` to name and camelCase
          const oldFieldName = selection.name.value;
          return {
            kind: Kind.FIELD,
            name: {
              kind: Kind.NAME,
              value: 'address' +
                oldFieldName.charAt(0).toUpperCase() +
                oldFieldName.slice(1)
            }
          };
        })
      };
      return newSelectionSet;
    },
    // how to process the data result at path
    result => ({
      streetAddress: result.addressStreetAddress,
      zip: result.addressZip
    })
```

* `ReplaceFieldWithFragment(targetSchema: GraphQLSchema, fragments: Array<{ field: string; fragment: string; }>)`: Replace the given fields with an inline fragment. Used by `mergeSchemas` to handle the `fragment` option.

## delegateToSchema transforms

The following transforms are automatically applied by `delegateToSchema` during schema delegation, to translate between new and old types and fields:

* `AddArgumentsAsVariables`: Given a schema and arguments passed to a root field, make those arguments document variables.
* `ExpandAbstractTypes`: If an abstract type within a document does not exist in the inner schema, expand the type to each and any of its implementations that do exist in the inner schema.
* `FilterToSchema`: Given a schema and document, remove all fields, variables and fragments for types that don't exist in that schema.
* `AddTypenameToAbstract`: Add `__typename` to all abstract types in the document, necessary for type resolution of interfaces within the outer schema to work.
* `CheckResultAndHandleErrors`: Given a result from a subschema, propagate errors so that they match the correct subfield. Also provide the correct key if aliases are used.

By passing a custom `transforms` array to `delegateToSchema`, it's possible to run additional operation (request/result) transforms before these default transforms.

Commit message:

refactor(subschemas): improve delegation workflow
- refine SubschemaConfig type to allow using identical objects to merge different schemas and then delegate to those subschemas.
- consolidate SchemaExecutionConfig type into SubschemaConfig type.
- add separate subschemas, types, and typeDefs options to mergeSchemas to highlight different things that are being merged -- schemas options still works.
- allow wrapSchema to take just a subschemaConfig as an argument, will apply the subschemas execution configuration and transforms to yield the appropriate delegating outer schema.
- add rootValue to delegateToSchema options and move all other newish delegateToSchema options within the subSchemaConfig. rootValue is parallel in some ways to context, so ok to have at top level.
- rename SubSchemaConfig => SubschemaConfig
-
- remove support for renaming types based on modification of an outer schema, this breaks when inner type is renamed and outer schema has interface not defined in inner schema. ExpandAbstractTypes currently handles this use case, but works only when the delegated result contains the correct typename. An alternative workflow would be to add the outer interface prior to renaming to each subschema and then merge interfaces.
- remove resolversTransformResult property from transforms, no longer being used.
- update docs!

This change paves the way for annotating a result with a reference to the delegated schema. With a modified merged resolver, an outer merged schema could check to see if it received a partial result of a merged type and then merge the partial result with the necessary additional schemas defining the type.

docs/source/schema-transforms.md, after:

---
title: Schema transforms
description: Automatically transforming schemas
---

Schema transforms are a tool for making modified copies of `GraphQLSchema` objects, without changing the original schema implementation. This is especially useful when the original schema _cannot_ be changed, i.e. when using [remote schemas](/remote-schemas/).

Schema transforms can be useful when building GraphQL gateways that combine multiple schemas using [schema stitching](/schema-stitching/) to combine schemas together without conflicts between types or fields.

Schema transforms work by wrapping the original schema in a new outer schema that simply delegates all operations to the original inner schema. Each schema transform includes a function that changes the outer wrapping schema. It may also include an operation transform, i.e. functions that either modify the operation prior to delegation or modify the result prior to its return.

```ts
interface Transform = {
  transformSchema?: (schema: GraphQLSchema) => GraphQLSchema;
  transformRequest?: (request: Request) => Request;
  transformResult?: (result: Result) => Result;
};
```

For example, let's consider changing the name of the type in a simple schema. Imagine we've written a function that takes a `GraphQLSchema` and replaces all instances of type `Test` with `NewTest`.

```graphql
# old schema
type Test {
  id: ID!
  name: String
}

type Query {
  returnTest: Test
}

# new schema

type NewTest {
  id: ID!
  name: String
}

type Query {
  returnTest: NewTest
}
```

On delegation to the inner, original schema, we want the `NewTest` type to be automatically mapped to the old `Test` type.

At first glance, it might seem as though most queries work the same way as before:

```graphql
query {
  returnTest {
    id
    name
  }
}
```

Since the fields of the type have not changed, delegating to the old schema is relatively easy here.

However, the new name begins to matter more when fragments and variables are used:

```graphql
query {
  returnTest {
    id
    ... on NewTest {
      name
    }
  }
}
```

Since the `NewTest` type did not exist on old schema, this fragment will not match anything in the old schema, so it will be filtered out during delegation.

What we need is a `transformRequest` function that knows how to rename any occurrences of `NewTest` to `Test` before delegating to the old schema.

By the same reasoning, we also need a `transformResult` function, because any results contain a `__typename` field whose value is `Test`, that name needs to be updated to `NewTest` in the final result.

## API

### Transform

```ts
interface Transform = {
  transformSchema?: (schema: GraphQLSchema) => GraphQLSchema;
  transformRequest?: (request: Request) => Request;
  transformResult?: (result: Result) => Result;
};

type Request = {
  document: DocumentNode;
  variables: Record<string, any>;
  extensions?: Record<string, any>;
};

type Result = ExecutionResult & {
  extensions?: Record<string, any>;
};
```

### wrapSchema

Given a `GraphQLSchema` and an array of `Transform` objects, produce a new schema with those transforms applied.

Delegating resolvers are generated to map from new schema root fields to old schema root fields. These automatic resolvers should be sufficient, so you don't have to implement your own.

The delegating resolvers will apply the operation transforms defined by the `Transform` objects. Each provided `transformRequest` functions will be applies in reverse order, until the request matches the original schema. The `tranformResult` functions will be applied in the opposite order until the result matches the outer schema.

### transformSchema

For convenience, when using `transformSchema`, after schema transformation, the `transforms` property on a returned `transformedSchema` object will contains the operation transforms that were applied. This could be useful when manually delegating to the original schema from an outer schema when [schema stitching](/schema-stitching/), but has been deprecated in favor of specifying subschema ids. See the [schema stitching](/schema-stitching/) docs for further details.

## Built-in transforms

Built-in transforms are ready-made classes implementing the `Transform` interface. They are intended to cover many of the most common schema transformation use cases, but they also serve as examples of how to implement transforms for your own needs.

### Modifying types

* `FilterTypes(filter: (type: GraphQLNamedType) => boolean)`: Remove all types for which the `filter` function returns `false`.

* `RenameTypes(renamer, options?)`: Rename types by applying `renamer` to each type name. If `renamer` returns `undefined`, the name will be left unchanged. Options controls whether built-in types and scalars are renamed. Root objects are never renamed by this transform.

```ts
RenameTypes(
  (name: string) => string | void,
  options?: {
    renameBuiltins: Boolean;
    renameScalars: Boolean;
  },
)
```

### Modifying root fields

* `TransformRootFields(transformer: RootTransformer)`: Given a transformer, arbitrarily transform root fields. The `transformer` can return a `GraphQLFieldConfig` definition, a object with new `name` and a `field`, `null` to remove the field, or `undefined` to leave the field unchanged.

```ts
TransformRootFields(transformer: RootTransformer)

type RootTransformer = (
  operation: 'Query' | 'Mutation' | 'Subscription',
  fieldName: string,
  field: GraphQLField<any, any>,
) =>
  | GraphQLFieldConfig<any, any>
  | { name: string; field: GraphQLFieldConfig<any, any> }
  | null
  | void;
```

* `FilterRootFields(filter: RootFilter)`: Like `FilterTypes`, removes root fields for which the `filter` function returns `false`.

```ts
FilterRootFields(filter: RootFilter)

type RootFilter = (
  operation: 'Query' | 'Mutation' | 'Subscription',
  fieldName: string,
  field: GraphQLField<any, any>,
) => boolean;
```

* `RenameRootFields(renamer)`: Rename root fields, by applying the `renamer` function to their names.

```ts
RenameRootFields(
  renamer: (
    operation: 'Query' | 'Mutation' | 'Subscription',
    name: string,
    field: GraphQLField<any, any>,
  ) => string,
)
```

### Modifying object fields

* `TransformObjectFields(objectFieldTransformer: ObjectFieldTransformer, fieldNodeTransformer?: FieldNodeTransformer))`: Given an object field transformer, arbitrarily transform fields. The `objectFieldTransformer` can return a `GraphQLFieldConfig` definition, a object with new `name` and a `field`, `null` to remove the field, or `undefined` to leave the field unchanged. The optional `fieldNodeTransformer`, if specified, is called upon any field of that type in the request; result transformation can be specified by wrapping the resolve function within the `objectFieldTransformer`. In this way, a field can be fully arbitrarily modified in place.

```ts
TransformObjectFields(objectFieldTransformer: ObjectFieldTransformer, fieldNodeTransformer: FieldNodeTransformer)

type ObjectFieldTransformer = (
  typeName: string,
  fieldName: string,
  field: GraphQLField<any, any>,
) =>
  | GraphQLFieldConfig<any, any>
  | { name: string; field: GraphQLFieldConfig<any, any> }
  | null
  | void;

type FieldNodeTransformer = (
  typeName: string,
  fieldName: string,
  fieldNode: FieldNode
) => FieldNode;
```

* `FilterObjectFields(filter: ObjectFilter)`: Removes object fields for which the `filter` function returns `false`.

```ts
FilterObjectFields(filter: ObjectFilter)

type ObjectFilter = (
  typeName: string,
  fieldName: string,
  field: GraphQLField<any, any>,
) => boolean;
```

* `RenameObjectFields(renamer)`: Rename object fields, by applying the `renamer` function to their names.

```ts
RenameObjectFields(
  renamer: (
    typeName: string,
    fieldName: string,
    field: GraphQLField<any, any>,
  ) => string,
)
```

### Additional Operation Transforms

It may be sometimes useful to add additional transforms to manually change an operation request or result when using `delegateToSchema`. Common use cases may be move selections around or to wrap them. The following built-in transforms may be useful in those cases.

* `ExtractField({ from: Array<string>, to: Array<string> })` - move selection at `from` path to `to` path.

* `WrapQuery(
    path: Array<string>,
    wrapper: QueryWrapper,
    extractor: (result: any) => any,
  )` - wrap a selection at `path` using function `wrapper`. Apply `extractor` at the same path to get the result. This is used to get a result nested inside other result

```js
transforms: [
  // Wrap document takes a subtree as an AST node
  new WrapQuery(
    // path at which to apply wrapping and extracting
    ['userById'],
    (subtree: SelectionSetNode) => ({
      // we create a wrapping AST Field
      kind: Kind.FIELD,
      name: {
        kind: Kind.NAME,
        // that field is `address`
        value: 'address',
      },
      // Inside the field selection
      selectionSet: subtree,
    }),
    // how to process the data result at path
    result => result && result.address,
  ),
],
```

`WrapQuery` can also be used to expand multiple top level query fields

```js
transforms: [
  // Wrap document takes a subtree as an AST node
  new WrapQuery(
    // path at which to apply wrapping and extracting
    ['userById'],
    (subtree: SelectionSetNode) => {
      const newSelectionSet = {
        kind: Kind.SELECTION_SET,
        selections: subtree.selections.map(selection => {
          // just append fragments, not interesting for this
          // test
          if (selection.kind === Kind.INLINE_FRAGMENT ||
            selection.kind === Kind.FRAGMENT_SPREAD) {
            return selection;
          }
          // prepend `address` to name and camelCase
          const oldFieldName = selection.name.value;
          return {
            kind: Kind.FIELD,
            name: {
              kind: Kind.NAME,
              value: 'address' +
                oldFieldName.charAt(0).toUpperCase() +
                oldFieldName.slice(1)
            }
          };
        })
      };
      return newSelectionSet;
    },
    // how to process the data result at path
    result => ({
      streetAddress: result.addressStreetAddress,
      zip: result.addressZip
    })
```

* `ReplaceFieldWithFragment(targetSchema: GraphQLSchema, fragments: Array<{ field: string; fragment: string; }>)`: Replace the given fields with an inline fragment. Used by `mergeSchemas` to handle the `fragment` option.

## delegateToSchema transforms

The following transforms are automatically applied by `delegateToSchema` during schema delegation, to translate between new and old types and fields:

* `AddArgumentsAsVariables`: Given a schema and arguments passed to a root field, make those arguments document variables.
* `ExpandAbstractTypes`: If an abstract type within a document does not exist in the inner schema, expand the type to each and any of its implementations that do exist in the inner schema.
* `FilterToSchema`: Given a schema and document, remove all fields, variables and fragments for types that don't exist in that schema.
* `AddTypenameToAbstract`: Add `__typename` to all abstract types in the document, necessary for type resolution of interfaces within the outer schema to work.
* `CheckResultAndHandleErrors`: Given a result from a subschema, propagate errors so that they match the correct subfield. Also provide the correct key if aliases are used.

By passing a custom `transforms` array to `delegateToSchema`, it's possible to run additional operation (request/result) transforms before these default transforms.
